Today, we're taking a look at how
to make apple pie simple and easy.
This is an easy recipe anyone could do.
Everything used on the video, we're
going to leave a link on the description.
We're using a whole bag of apples.
This particular bag has nine apples,
and we're using Granny Smith apples.
But you can use any apple that you like.
The first First thing that we're going
to do, we're going to go
ahead and wash our apples.
Then, let's go ahead and peel them.
But if you feel adventurous today,
and on the daredevil side, you can
go ahead and peel them with a knife.
You let them know that not only Rambo
is the only one that can handle one.
Now that we have our apples peel,
we can go ahead and slice them.
And how thin or thick you
want them is all up to you.
We like to go on the medium
side so everybody can be happy.
Remember, you are king or queen or both
of your castles, so those that go against
the king or queen don't eat today.
Let's go ahead and place
the slices on a bowl.
Let's go ahead and start
working on our filling.
We're going to add three quarters of a cup
of white sugar,
one a teaspoon of salt,
three quarters of a teaspoon of ground
cinnamon,
one eighth of a teaspoon of nutmeg,
two tablespoons of all-purpose flour or
cornstarch, And lastly,
two tablespoons of lemon juice.
Now, let's go ahead and mix.
And then we can leave it there
for 20 minutes to 45 minutes.
And this is going to get all
the good juices out the apple.
Let's go ahead and take our
butter and cut it in cubes.
And we want to make sure that the butter
is coming out right out of the freezer.
The colder, the better.
We're using a total of two sticks today,
but now we're only going to cut
in cubes one and a half sticks.
Now, let's go ahead and make some pie
crust, and we're going to use the food
processor mixer to get that done.
But now that you feel black belt-like,
you can use two Samurai swords,
two Rambo knives, two forks, or the
deadliest of them all, a pastry cutter.
Let's go ahead and add two cups of all
is flour, one teaspoon of salt,
one teaspoon of baking powder,
one teaspoon of sugar.
We can go ahead and add the butter.
And we're going to pulse it a couple
of times to mix everything in.
Now, we can go ahead
and start adding our water.
And we're going to do
that a teaspoon at a time.
And we want to make sure that the water is
ice cold, so adding a couple
of cubes of ice would go a long way.
We can start by adding
three tablespoons and pulse.
Now, we could turn on the food processor
and start adding one teaspoon of water
until everything is well mixed.
Now, let's go ahead and flour
our working surface.
We can dump our dough,
sprinkle some more flour
on top and create a disk form.
Now, we can go ahead and place
that on a sip lock bag
on the freezer for 20 minutes.
Now, we can go back to our filling.
Let's go ahead and mix it once again.
As you can see, all the juices
have fall to the bottom.
What we're going to do is go ahead
and drain out that liquid and place it
on a sauce pan because we're
taking it to the stove.
We're going to turn the stove on to medium
low and add 2 tablespoons of corn starch.
Adding the corn starch in a little bit
of water and pre-mixing it before throwing
it in, and it's going
to help you avoid any lums.
And this is going to help
thicken the pie filling.
Once we see the mixture boil,
we're going to turn the stove off.
And now we can add the half a stick
of butter that we use to grease the pan.
And now you can whisk away.
We let the mixture cool for a little
bit and then mix it with the apples.
Let's go ahead and grease the pan.
Let's go ahead and take our dough out
the freezer, dust our working surface,
and we're going to divide the dough on two
pieces because one is for the
bottom and one for the top.
And we're going to place one
back on the freezer again.
Remember to put it inside a siploc bag,
because if not, you can imagine
what your freezer tastes like.
We're going to take our rolling pin
and dust it, and we're going to start
pushing the dough down
and rolling at the same time.
At the beginning, you're
able to flip the dough.
Once it starts stretching,
you won't be able to.
Remember, if you feel the dough that is
sticky, you can add
flour in small amounts.
Our goal is to get the dough one inch or
two inches bigger than the actual pie pan.
Once we get there, we're going to use the
rolling pin to carry the dough to the pan.
And you do that by rolling
the dough slowly to the rolling pin.
And remember, it doesn't
have to be perfect.
Remember that you're going
to place another dough on the top.
We want to fill in all the gaps.
And using your tiny little scissors,
we're going to go ahead
and cut the excess dough.
And we reach the arts and craft part
of the video, where you're going to show
your patience and overall technique to see
if you can get that black
belt you always want.
We're going to crimp the dough all around
using the two-finger method
with the one finger method.
And this is a technique that has been
handed down by generations
and generations, where you crimp
the dough with a deadly one finger touch.
Meanwhile, you hold
the dough with two fingers.
But we know that you can do it,
little grasshopper.
Now, let's go ahead
and add our pie filling.
We don't have to precook the crust because
this might go on the oven
for 45 minutes to an hour.
Let's go ahead and place our bottom
part of the pie on the freezer.
And we want to do this
to keep everything cold.
We can go ahead and turn on our
oven at 425 degrees Fahrenheit.
Let's go ahead and dust our work surface,
bring our our top dough,
and what we're going to do is the same
thing we did with the bottom one.
We're going to roll it out until we have
one or two inches bigger than the pie pan.
Bring out our pie from the freezer
and picking up the dough with the rolling
pin and placing it on top of the pie.
Using our tiny scissors,
cutting off any excess.
And remember, all the dough that remains,
you can make either another
a pie pocket or save it
on the freezer for a later date.
Now that you have practiced the Almighty
finger technique, we can get another
crack at it, crimping the dough.
Remember, it doesn't have to be perfect.
Remember that whoever goes against your
kingdom, just call them and show them this
happy face that you're making on the pie
so they can see how you
control the steel blade.
It's always very important
to let fruit pies ventilate.
That's why we make the holes.
Now you're almost done.
Let's go ahead and take our brush
and eggwash and pass it all over the pie.
If you want to know how to do eggwash,
we're going to leave a link
on the description to that video.
Once we've done that, now we can go
ahead and sprinkle it with sugar.
We think three is the magic number.
But then we said, let's sprinkle it four
times because that's how many
techniques you master today.
You can go ahead and place the pie
on the oven for 20 minutes.
A pro tip, placing a pan with water under
the pie goes a long way because you don't
want to be the one scraping
off that sugar off that oven.
Especially if there's a spouse involved,
you might lose the kingdom
if that happens.
After 20 minutes, you want to place
your oven on 375 degrees for 30 minutes.
You can give yourself a pat
in the back for a job well done.
You have become one with the pie.
Now comes the hardest part, letting
that pie rest for 2 hours or until cool.
But if you want a more tastier pie,
leaving it overnight on the fridge,
that's the way to go.
Don't forget, if you like the recipe
try it out.
Bye